#summary How to create new race with stages

=How to create new race with stages=

This page will show you how can you create a new race with their stages.
I will show you the steps of the creation on the race Dakar 2013.

==Content==
 * [#Prerequisites Prerequisites]
 * [#Create_race Create race]
  * [#Get_earth_data Get earth data]
  * [#Open_earth_data_texture Open earth data texture]
  * [#Steps_inside_the_game Steps inside the game]
  * [#Navigation Navigation]
  * [#Action Action]

==Prerequisites==

You will need the following things to be able to create a new race:
 * installed game base, runtime (see: [InstallInstructions Install Instructions])
 * some image maipulation program (prefer: [http://www.gimp.org Gimp])

==Create race==

Before start to create the race you must do few things.

===Get earth data===

Earth data contains the terrain height data. That will deterimine the style of
the race. At this moment you can only download the data for Dakar 2012 
([https://code.google.com/p/rallyraid/downloads/list here]),
which is also good for 2013. Unfortunatelly the size of the data for the whole
earth is to large, but i have if you need any part of it (from America to the
Arabian peninsula).

===Open earth data texture===

Start the image manipulation program. Open image: `<`game path`>`/data/earthdata/earth`_`data`_`texture.png.

===Steps inside the game===

 * start the game
 * put the game into editor mode (left-bottom on the main screen)
 * save settings to make the editor mode permanent
 * click on _Start New Game_
 * if there was already at least one race, then click on _Start Game_ on the stage screen
 * press _F3_ if you are in the game, that will open the [EditorMainS editor window]
 * click on _RaM_ tab (Race Manager)
 * type _race id_: dakar2013
 * click on create (new directory will be created under data/races)
 * double click on the new race in the list (race window will be opened)
 * fill necessarry datas
 * click on _Save_ (race.cfg will be created under data/races/dakar2013)
 * to create new day: type _Day id_: day01
 * click on _new day_ (day01 directory will be created under data/race/dakar2013)
 * double click on the new day in the list (day window will be opened)
 * fill necessary datas
 * click on _Save_ (day.cfg will be created under data/races/dakar2013/day01)
 * to create new stage: type _Stage id_: stage1
 * click on _new stage_ (stage1 directory will be created under data/race/dakar2013/day01)
 * double click on the new stage in the list (stage window will be opened)
 * fill necessary datas
 * click on _Save_ (stage.cfg will be created under data/races/dakar2013/day01/stage1)
 * click on _activate race_ to make the stage active, so next time if you place an object it will be visible

Now you have a race with an empty stage. You will need to edit the stage. Close stage, day and race window.

===Navigation===

 * switch to the image manupulation program and select the pixel where you want to go: 1819, 2730
 * type these coordinates into _tileX_ and _tileY_
 * click on _reset_ (game will place you at that coordinate)
 * type _F_ to switch free flight mode, where you can navigate with the cursor and mouse
 * you can increse the speed of the camera by _O_, decrease by _L_
 * you can see some status in the editor infobar at the top-left corner
[http://code.google.com/p/rallyraid/wiki/EditorInfobar http://rallyraid.googlecode.com/svn/images/wiki/editor_infobar.png]

===Action===

 * select a place where the stage should be
 * press _F3_ again to open editor window
 * select _add AI point_ in the action list
 * click on _action_
 * you can now navigate again
 * click with the left mouse button to place an AI point (next time you select the stage, you will be place there)
 * press _F4_ to exit from the _ACTION_ mode
 * double click on the stage line in the list (stage window will be opened)
 * click on _save_